So, let's
find out about using Blueprint Timeline. In this video,
the Timeline node is a Blueprint
feature that has a curve editor in it. This is a perfect way of defining how a door
is going to be moving graphically, in a graphic interface. I'll  be showing you
how to use these curves in Blueprint, and then,we'll be setting a rotation of the
door from a Timeline. What does all this mean? It means that by the end of the video,
we will have a door that opens like that, nice
and smoothly. Awesome, let's go get it done!
So, let the fun begin! Let's start making our doors swing,
according to a curve, so over into the door blueprint!
So, what we have here is the Event Graph Tab.
You're starting, hopefully, to get a feel for what this does. We have this unopened request coming from
code. The white line is an execution flow and it's triggering a
setting of an Actor Rotation. And for the
moment, we've just parameterized that right in here and said,
when the request comes through immediately set the rotation to 80 degrees,
which has the rather unfortunate effect of still
just having the door open, boom like that, instantaneously! So, that's
the first thing we want to improve. We want it to open over
time. So, how do we do that? Well, if you right-click
on your blueprint, you've got all sorts of categories in here, and at the very
bottom you've got Add Timeline, or you could just search for timeline.
You get several things then, but you still want Add Timeline. So let's do that, let's add a Timeline!
OK, what is this Timeline thing? Let's take a little look at it.
I'm just going to reduce the number of tabs that I have hanging around, so that we can
focus on what we're doing here. In fact, I don't even need
the Components right now. OK, that's better isn't it, we can see
what's going on! So, what this does is, if you double-click it,
you'll see that you actually have a set of curves, or we can
create a set of curves to do with the Timeline. So, let's do
this! Get your Timeline down, double-click it, which will open up the Curve
Editor, and let's add a Float Track. There are various other types of vectors, events, and
things, but let's just worry about float for now. We're just going to use a floating point value between
0 and 90 degrees to control the opening of the door. So, you add a Float
Track. We're going to call this Float Track Open
Angle. Now, let me just give you the big picture for a minute. You don't need to follow me, for a second. If I add
another Float Track, it could be something else
OK, and then, what this Curve Editor is doing, if you
click in the right place and scroll up and down, is you can collapse down these different tracks,
Open Angle and something else. Let's just go back to the Event Graphs. Look what happens!
They get exposed as floats, on the right-hand side of this Timeline
block. OK, you can rename the Timeline block, if you like, by right-
clicking it, rename, and call it Door Swing,
because this is what it's going to do. And what's going to happen is, when something comes in on the left-hand side,
like for instance the OpenDoorRequest, it's going to start playing
the Door Swing Timeline, and then,
these values, the open door and something else, are going to change over time
according to the curves. OK, so we don't need something else. I'm going to delete
that by right-clicking and Delete. We only need an open
angle curve. So, you see this is updated, we just have an Open Angle float
output. So, right-click, add key to float. Now, by the way, you can
either completely follow me along with this, right now... I do want to tell you that your challenge
is going to be to setup your own curves, in a moment, for your door
to your eye. So, you can either do it now as we go, or you can
watch me do it and then I'll give you an opportunity to pause and do it yourself in a minute. So, we
add a key, this is like a key frame. Now, you can adjust it by dragging
it around, and you'll notice that the time and value are changing. So, around
here is around 0 time, the start. We have an angle
value of whatever, of half a degree. So, I'm
actually going to click it and type in a Time 0.0. I want an angle of
0. How do I know it's 0? Well, let's go and inspect the door for a moment.
There's the door, have a little look at it, Details. You see that the
Rotation is 000. What do we want the Rotation to end up? Well,
we want it to end up -90, remember?
So, back to your Curve Editor, add another keyframe,
click it. Then, Time say ooh I don't know, I think
I'll get my door to open every 2 seconds to -90 degrees. Now, your
scale is all messed up, you can't see anything. You can scroll around with the Right Mouse,
zoom in and out with the Mouse Wheel, but this isn't really the way to do it. This button here,
towards the top-left of the graph, zooms to Horizontal Fit. The other one is
zooms to vertical fit, so that's what we want to do. Now, we can see our curve.
It's a straight line, opening over a period of 2 seconds. Well, we could have
done that in code easily enough, so why have you made all of this? Why have you gone
to all this trouble? Well, right-click on one of the nodes and select it
to Auto Interpolation. There are various different types. Auto, as it says,
creates automatic tangents. You see what's happened there? I can now change
the curve, using these tangent handles, and that is the
power of actually doing it here in the Node Editor. Once I've set one
node to Auto, I can change the curve appearance. You wouldn't want it to swing past,
necessarily past 90 degrees. You might, a little bit, but I just want mine to be a
smooth curve. This is much much harder to do in code, and we can add other
keyframes and move things around and we can make them like break
nodes, which means you get a sudden change, you break that tangent. Or you
can make them User nodes or Auto nodes,
which are nice and even. Lots of different options to play with, but I'm just going to have
two keyframes and I'm just going to go smoothly like that OK.
The other thing is the length. You need to look at the length of the animation.
If I have 2 seconds here and I have 5 seconds for the length, let's
see what actually happens before we fix the problem that I know is going to happen.
So, we've just got a 2 second animation.
Don't worry about the length, you'll see the consequence of that in a minute. Let's take the Open Angle as a
float. Now we can't, it's green right? It's a float, and what this rotation wants is a rotator,
if you hover over it. We can't just put a float into a rotator. It says,
"Float is not compatible with rotator." So, what we do is, you drag the float into the middle of
nowhere, type the word rotator, and you can see Make Rotator
ah! Now, what do you want to plug float into? Is it Roll,
Pitch, or Yaw? Well, let's look at the door, and remind ourselves what's going on.
Minimize this, look at the door. This is Pitch, remember?
This would be Roll of the door, and this one here is
Yaw, so the Z is Yaw we're looking for.
If you want to move a line that you've made, you either right-click and say break,
or you can hold down Control and you'll move from
this selector to a hand and then you can drag to a new position. So, we want
Open Angle to go into the Yaw node, and out of that comes a Rotator. You see
the color there, it's a Rotator, into the new Rotation.
So, this is just a cast or a change of
type. OK, pretty cool right! So, on
up, if we just run this now, let's try it! I'm going to put this on the right-hand
side and you can put your game on the left-hand side, and you don't even need to compile your blueprint,
by the way. If you play the game, the blueprint will compile. Now watch
what happens when I get on the pressure pad. You can see the execution line, you see what's happening here.
The red on the right-hand side there is saying that I've got a continuous firing
of this open request into the play node. Alright,
now the door hasn't moved, because we need to wire the update of the door
swing into the Set Actor
Rotation, because what's happening is the Set Actor
Rotation, each of these nodes... Well, straight value changes can
happen in an instant but the rest of these nodes have to happen on an update,
and there is no tick come execution pin or tick coming into Set Actor
Rotation. So, on the update of the Door Swing, like this, we do that.
Alright, we could do it from an update tick node, but why bother when we have an
update coming out of the Door Swing. So, let's see what difference that's made. It'll make sense
in context, I'm hoping. Let's play now, Alt P is an
easy way of doing that. Now, you see the execution goes through and the
door swings nicely. Now, we have a problem with the closing of the door, but we'll
deal with that in a moment. You see what's happening there. So it's now,
when I step back on the plate, what's happening is the animation is finished. Let's look a bit more
closely at this bit here. Door Swing paused. OK, let's start
again and just analyze this carefully. Door Swing, 1 second,
2 seconds, 3 seconds, 4 seconds, 5 seconds. You see
that the animation is 5 seconds long, and yet we've only got 2 seconds worth of
the door swinging. Let's watch that again! The door is fully open after 2
seconds, per our curves, but the animation is lasting for a full 5
seconds OK. So, that is what I meant, when we go into the
Curve Editor, about the length. We don't want to have to manually change this length every time
to match this last keyframe, so you click
Use Last Keyframe. Now, this value isn't changing, that's a bit annoying.
It may change, if we're really lucky, but it doesn't seem to want to. let me
just come out and go in and see if it changes. I don't think it will. No, it
doesn't change but it has changed. Let's watch! Oops, sorry back into the
Node Editor, get on the right-hand side, get the Event Graph up,
and we're going to watch this time here, paused 0. And let's just play
again and see what happens! And the percentage, you see the total percentage
100%, at two seconds now. So, this means that your curve
and your animation length are the same. Because you could have multiple curves, you could be doing lots of
things to lots of different axes of moment. We just want the whole animation
to end, when the time gets to the last keyframe. Ignore this 5,
it's being overridden by Use Last Keyframe. It's not a brilliant interface.
So, we're there! In the next video, what we're going to do is add another node, as you can see
on this slide, called OnCloseRequest, and we're going to make that run the whole Timeline
backwards. Don't do that now, I'm just tell you that, that's what we're going to end up doing. What I
do want you to do now, is if you haven't already caught of with me, I want you to pause the video,
build your own Blueprint, set your own curves
how you want them, and just do everything
on this diagram, except the OnCloseRequest OK, because we'll be covering that in the next
video. And I'll see you in the next video!